# Lung-Disease-Detection-and-Classification-of-different-types-of-Diseases-using-Convolutional-Neural-Network


Lung disease is a growing healthcare problem that can easily be misinterpreted as Covid-19 due to similar symptoms. Lung disease is going to worsen due to increase use of cigarette and tobacco products along with young generation becoming the frequent user. The main cause of lung disease is smoking and inhaling worse air present in the environment. Smoking cessation is the only effective prevention method. However, lung function continues to decline during the long asymptomatic period. In conclusion, many patients do not seek medical attention until they are in an advanced stage or experience an acute exacerbation. To maintain patients' quality of life and reduce healthcare costs associated with this chronic disease, physicians must accurately diagnose the condition and treat patients appropriately throughout the long-term course of the disease. COPD is curable. With proper treatment, most lung disease patients can achieve good health and positive quality of life. The timely diagnosis of lung diseases is very important. With proper treatment, most COPD patients can achieve good symptom control and quality of life, as well as reduce the risk of other comorbidities. Chest X-ray imaging is the most reliable method for lung disease prediction. In particular, we propose an approach by using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to classify the lung X-Ray into four different types i.e., Pneumonia, Covid-19, Tuberculosis, and Normal. All the considered types CNN, ResNet50, and MobileNetV2, VGG19 are trained and tested on the same chest X-ray database, and the performance of each type is discussed. Comparative results in terms of accuracy, error rate, and training time between the types of CNN are presented.
